OPUS 4.0.0 - Release Notes

WARNING: THESE ARE DRAFT! OPUS is expected to be released in the next two weeks.

This release of OPUS is one of the most significant in several years, partly
since the application has been completely rewritten. Therefore it is more
important that usual to read these notes carefully to understand any
ramifications to your installed application.

Notes for Users
---------------

For most users of the system, the changes will appear to be mainly visual.
User interfaces should be more consistent and simple, and more visually
attractive. Nevertheless, there are some minor changes to note.

* OPUS now has a system of preferences for each user. Most of these are
  accessible from the "preferences" option in the top right of the screen.
  Some, however, are automatically used and saved. For example, now OPUS
  remembers all your settings in the main, and complex, search forms, and
  will continue to use those settings when you return to the form in the
  same session. If you correctly logout (using the option in the top right
  of the screen), OPUS will save these preferences for use in your next
  session.

* The menus have been completely reimplemented, and should be much more
  clean and clear. Each function has a menu item of its own. Complex
  functionality is in separate menus. Context sensitive menus appear in
  certain circumstances (e.g. when editing a student). Still other 
  improvements have been made (see bug #207, bug #196).

* Students will now be able to record applications they make to special
  vacancies, these can't be automatically verified but are still useful as
  a recording tool hopefully. (closes wishlist item bug #199, #105).

* OPUS now knows about Faculties, which should simplify administration of
  big systems. In the past administrators could be allocated to programmes
  or schools, but this is now extended to Faculties and the institution at
  large which can be useful for faculty staff and staff from central departments.

* CVs, now when "viewed" either directly, or with emails, are registered as
  seem (closes bug #202). They will also be cached in the OPUS database,
  making some operations quicker. It will be possible for companies to select
  a number of CVs (many at a time) that will be subsequently emailed to them.
  (closes wishlist bug #175).

* Reports will all be moved into one section in the Information menu, making
  the various reports possible easier to see (although they have always been
  there). Expect more improvements in the 4.x lifecycle. (Closes bug #167).

* Supervisors now have their own directory which simplifies searching for them
  and shows the student they are associated with (closes bug #131).

* Staff users and admin users can now be initially created by giving their
  registration number from a SRS (Student Records System). OPUS is generally
  more vocal about when records systems are unavailable (closes bug #109).

* It is now possible to store health & safety compliance information directly
  in the company record, rather than just in notes as before (closes bug #102).

* Individual assessments can now be exported in one document for careful
  analysis, previously each student had to be reviewed one at a time. (closes
  bug #106).

* Channels will allow students to be explicitly added to them by reg_number.
  This will facilitate some internal UU work. A more elegant solution may be
  found in time. (closes wishlist bug #214).

* Vacancies will now have a type associated with them, which can be arbitrarily
  configured by administrators. There might be for example "One Year Sandwick",
  "one month", "summer placement", "graduate" and placement teams will be
  able to decide which types are suitable for their groups to meet assessment
  criteria. (closes wishlist bug #213)



Notes for System Administrators
-------------------------------

This version of OPUS should be, by far, the simplest to install and maintain
yet. However there are some points to note.

* OPUS now runs on a common framework with the PDSystem, and other planned
  applications for the future. This framework UUWAF, is required to be
  installed before OPUS can work.

  UUWAF requires PHP with a version beyond 5.1, this is because it uses the
  PDO functionality within PHP which was bundled in the core from that version on.
  Therefore OPUS will no longer run on PHP 4, but please note PHP 4 is no longer
  a supported product by PHP itself.

  The benefit of this is that database access is now very normalised, and it is
  in fact probably possible (but untested and not recommended) to move OPUS to any
  database layer supported by PDO (including Oracle and Postgresql). It should
  also close some issues (bug # 194).

* The database is so radically changed that the upgrade procedure is slightly more
  complex that usual, consisting of an initial SQL patch, a PHP script to migrate
  data, and finishing with another upgrade patch. Read the instructions in the
  sql_patch directory very carefully if you are upgrading from 3.x.

* The configuration file for OPUS is very much more simple, but radically
  different from previous versions. You should check the whole configuration file
  very carefully. Note that, to make upgrades simple, you should create, and
  modify a local copy of the config file as directed, so that global configuration
  options are preserved on upgrade. This should also resolve bug #191.

* Authentication handling in OPUS 4 is much more flexible, being handled by the
  framework. There is a directory, include/auth.d which holds "plugins" for
  authentication. The README file in that directory will explain how to enable
  various authentication sources, and how to write your own plugins.

* The cron framework for version 4 is no longer standalone code, but uses the same
  model business logic layer. It can also provide some useful command line tools for
  OPUS. Try "./opus.php help" in the cron directory for more information.

* OPUS will ask the first super admin user for permission to "phone home". This
  will initially be simply to report an installation, and further permission
  will be requested to periodically send information useful to us in supporting
  you. This will be, for example, user counts, company counts, vacancy counts,
  BUT WILL ABSOLUTELY NOT CONTAIN ANY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. This
  information helps us to help you, and more allows us to report on the success
  of our open sourcing effort to our management. It is entirely optional, you
  can elect to be CCd no the emails to ensure fair play, and of course, you can
  study the code for yourself. None of this information will be made available
  to third parties on the basis of an individual institution, but aggregate data
  may be so presented.